{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 HOWTO Build\
\

\f1\b0 \
Mulle XMLRPC needs installed versions of EDCommon and EDMessage framework in order to build. Get both frameworks from their homepage at http://www.mulle-kybernetik.com/software/EDFrameworks/.\
\
Mulle XMLRPC consists of several targets:\
\

\f2\i UNIT Tests
\f1\i0 \

\f2\i Parser Test
\f1\i0 \

\f2\i Test Client
\f1\i0 \

\f2\i Test Client Application
\f1\i0 \

\f2\i Test Server\
XMLRPC Framework
\f1\i0 \

\f2\i xrcall
\f1\i0 \
\
\
The 
\f2\i UNIT Tests
\f1\i0  are somewhat ugly and should use something more sophisticated like 
\f2\i OCTestingUnit
\f1\i0 . If you agree, you're welcomed to take over the task.\
\
The 
\f2\i Parser Test
\f1\i0  suits as a testbed for the EDMLParser, to help improve its debugging in case there are bugs left (currently there are none known).\
\
The 
\f2\i Test Client
\f1\i0  is a very simple client which connects to localhost on port 2333. In order for the test client to prove that it works, you should build the 
\f2\i Test Server
\f1\i0  first. Also, have a look at the if(0/1) statements to test several features.\
\
The 
\f2\i Test Server
\f1\i0  is a very simple server which starts on localhost port 2333.\
\
The 
\f2\i XMLRPC Framework
\f1\i0  is the framework itself. Install this target to make it usable in your projects.\
\
The 
\f2\i xrcall
\f1\i0   tool is a very nifty command line tool that can connect to any XML-RPC server. Use it to debug your server or to quickly examine another server's capabilities etc..\
\
\

\f0\b GNUstep\
\
\

\f1\b0 Mulle XMLRPC was initially ported using gcc 3.0.4 and a current gnustep-base from cvs. Using the 1.3.0 release of gnustep-base does not work! I've never tested with libFoundation, so it's possible it won't even compile with libFoundation.\
\
Testing was done on FreeBSD 4.5-STABLE and Linux 2.4.x (SUSE). As a specialty, compiling on FreeBSD with make debug=yes causes the compiler to crash (gcc 3.0.4). Interestingly enough, compiling without make debug=yes on Linux causes gnustep-base to crash randomly during NSString's initWithFormat: method ...\
\
Apart from these issues (which are not even Mulle XMLRPC related) everything worked fine so far.\
}